# 3.6 Interrupt-Based DA Conversion Scan

### Description

Interrupt-based analog output is useful for generating analog output values automatically at a specified rate, such as generating an analog waveform. It differs in operation from a single D/A conversion scan in that it generates output data continuously or for a specified number of samples each time the function is called. There are a number of different options that can be set for interrupt-based operations; these are explained in the interrupt-based operations chapter.

The Universal Driver function for performing interrupt-based D/A conversion scans is dscDAConvertScanInt.

### Step-By-Step Instructions

Create and initialize an analog I/O interrupts structure \(DSCAIOINT\).

Set the entries of the sample\_values buffer in the DSCAIOINT structure to the desired output codes. You must have num\_conversion entries of size, WORD, in the buffer to ensure proper operation.

Call dscDAConvertScanInt\(\) and pass it a pointer to the above-mentioned DSCAIOINT structure to begin interrupt operation. The interrupt operations will now run in a separate system thread until either they reach the maximum number of conversions specified \(one-shot mode only\) or they are cancelled by a call to dscCancelOp.

### Example of Usage for Interrupt-Based D/A Scan

```c
... 

DSCB dscb; 
DSCAIOINT dscaioint; 
int i; 

/* Step 1 */ 

dscaioint.num_conversions = 1024; 
dscaioint.conversion_rate = 10000; 
dscaioint.cycle = FALSE; 
dscaioint.internal_clock = TRUE; 
dscaioint.low_channel = 0; 
dscaioint.high_channel = 3; 
dscaioint.external_gate_enable = FALSE; 

/* Step 2 */ 

dscaioint.sample_values = (WORD*)malloc(sizeof(WORD) * dscaioint.num_conversions); 

for (i = 0; i < dscaioint.num_conversions; i++) 
    dscaioint.sample_values[i] = (WORD)4095; 

/* Step 3 */ 

if ((result = dscDAConvertScanInt(dscb, &dscaioint)) != DE_NONE) 
    return result; 

...
```

