# 6.1.1 Definitions of Constants

The definition of these constants is the same for both the Prometheus and Hercules \(as long as the constant is supported by the board.\)

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left">Constants</th>
      <th style="text-align:left">Definition</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">XXXX_WD_TRIGGER_SCI</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>1 = Watchdog counter 1 will generate SCI on time-out</p>
        <p>0 = no SCI occurs.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">XXXX_WD_TRIGGER_NMI</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>1 = Watchdog counter 1 will generate NMI on time-out</p>
        <p>0 = no NMI occurs.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">XXXX_WD_TRIGGER_SMI</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>1 = Watchdog counter 1 will generate SMI on time-out</p>
        <p>0 = no SMI occurs.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">XXXX_WD_TRIGGER_RESET</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>1 = Watchdog counter 1 will generate a hardware reset immediately on time-out.
          In this case WD2 serves no purpose, since its function is to delay the
          assertion of hardware reset from the timeout of WD1. However a valid load
          value for WD2 must still be supplied to the function.</p>
        <p>0 = no hardware reset occurs now (hardware reset will still be generated
          upon timeout of WD2).</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">XXXX_WD_WDI_ASSERT_FALLING_EDGE</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>1 = WDI will retrigger the watchdog timer on a falling edge.</p>
        <p>0 = WDI will retrigger on a rising edge.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">XXXX_WD_WDO_TRIGGERED_EARLY</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>1 = output on WDO will be generated one clock cycle before counter 1 times
          out. In this case, WDO can be used to retrigger WDI by wiring the two signals
          together. This causes a bypass condition that prevents the watchdog timer
          from ever timing out.</p>
        <p>0 = output on WDO will be generated when watchdog counter 1 times out
          (normal operation).</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">XXXX_WD_ENABLE_WDI_ASSERTION</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">1 = hardware trigger input WDI will retrigger watchdog timer circuit and
        reload counter 1. Software retrigger command may also be used. 0 = input
        signal WDI is disabled; only software retrigger command may be used.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>This information can also be found on page 104 of the ZFx86 Training Manual included in the \Prometheus\Docs folder on the Diamond Systems CD.

